Court trip to Fort Worth. Fort Worth. Describe
that. Oh, that was hectic. I was just a young kid. No
money or anything like that, but I had tickets to
the football game. Well, we get there in this room,
and we had all these Aggies, all freshmen. We were
all in there, and, you know, there wasn't much
drinking. Hardly any drinking at all. There was
some that liked it at that age, and I never drank at
all at A&M except when we had the fish party. And
that's the last time I drank at A&M, believe me. My
whole four years I never drank any alcohol at all,
or smoked cigarettes. But at TCU, in the same hotel
with girls from Tissy, from Denton. and TSCW and
they were there and so it was really a nice party and
nothing permissive was about it at all. It was just
wholesome fun and they knew we didn't have any
money so they didn't care about making demands on
us. We all went to the game together and we all came
back and we had good bull session with the girls and
everything. And then about 3 o'clock in the
morning, 2 o'clock in the morning, everybody
decided they better go to sleep. Everybody left.
And you marched down the street in the review. Yes,
sir. Any negative? Did anything ever happen badly
during a formal review? I can't recall anything.
The crowd cheered us every time we'd come by. They
cheered and cheered and cheered and it just made
you feel proud to be an Aggie. That fall, there must
have been some special football moments that you
remember because we had a pretty good team that
fall. We had a good team, great national
champions. Yes. What were some favorite moments
you remember? Well, every game we had at College
Station was a great moment because we had this guy
named Jordan John Kimbrough.
We'd holler for Joran John, Joran John. So even the
Texas game, we were never worried about it. But we
used to farm, we used to have, we farmed the tea,
block tea, which they don't do now. And the Yale
leaders would get on top of the press box and we'd be
on the cow field, farmed in tea. And I think that was
just great. Now, during that year, that fall,
describe a typical home Saturday. You got up
and... Oh, Saturday morning, the day of the game.
Everybody's excited. Go to breakfast, wait
tables, and then go back. And noon was a great
occasion because here comes, well, yeah, my fish
year. I was just a freshman with a white jacket on,
and the girls were all there. But my senior year,
when I was waiting tables for a typical football
game, had the boots on, and the girls admired the
boots, and you come up with those. starchy white
jackets, you know, you really made a nice
presentation. And the girls would go, oh, oh, oh,
you know. But a typical day, everybody was in a
hurry to get to the game, and we all sat together,
just like they do today. And then we watched the
ball game, and of course, Was there a Friday night
Yale practice? Midnight, yes, we had midnight
Yale practice. And it was held at the Y? At the Y, on
the steps of the YMCA, sure were, right there by the
bugle stand. Describe your memory of some of these
famous football, Aggie football players. What
was John Kimbrough like as a person? John
Kimbrough as a person, and I really got to know him
because I was a freshman football player. but as a
person was genuinely one of the finest persons
I've met from Haskell, Texas. Always
accommodating, always smiling, and always doing
the right thing and never bad mouthing anybody.
great All-American guard A&M had, tough as they
make them boy. He was just opposite of John. But he
was pleasant too. He was a nice guy. He never abused
anybody. And Jim Thomason was sort of a quiet
person, but he was the leading blocker for
Kimbrough. Herb Smith was the end. And just Cotton
Price was a quarterback. And did all those
football players go to class? They all went to
class. They lived in dorms. If they didn't live
with their unit, and I lived with my unit, A
battery, then I got transferred to H battery. But
we had dorm 12, was the athletic dorm. And if the
athletes didn't want to live with the unit, they
lived over there. Now they were kind of a rowdy
bunch over there. Yeah, he couldn't study in
there.
But they didn't get any give-away grades. No. They
had to go to class like everybody else. Oh, no. In
fact, I think the profs made it tougher on us.
Who were some of the other famous students when you
were here? Kimbrough and, you mentioned
Kimbrough and Robinette. Who were some of the
other celebrities? Celebrities? Today, you
mean? Uh-huh. Bob Bright. Went from Dallas. He
happened, his name was Bright and my name was
Cocono so when we stood in line alphabetically he
was always in front of me and I said, what's your
name? He said Bright. Where you from, Dallas?
Where you from, Beaumont? So we became dear
friends. I didn't know who he was. He didn't know
who I was. Did he have that nickname then? Oh, yeah.
How did he get that, do you know? I have no idea how
Bum got that name. But what a fine person. Who were
some other famous Aggies that you knew as
students? At that time, other than athletes, I'm
trying to think. Well, who were your best buddies,
your best friends, when you were a student? Well,
my basketball comrade were friends, Raymond
Clutch, Pete Watkins, who held the high jump
record at Drake for 20-some odd years, and who
else? Daddy Green, the swimming All-American.
You want to hear that story? Yes, please. I'm
sitting on the basketball bench one afternoon my
junior year when I was resting. We were practicing
and Coach Art Adamson You know, he wasn't a very
outgoing person, but he was a nice guy, really
nice. Never said much to anybody, but he always put
out winners. World champion water polo team and
swimmers and Danny Green, All-American. And he
comes sitting down beside me. I looked at him and
said to myself, that's unusual. He never sits by
anybody, you know. So next thing I know, he's
asking me, he says, Mike, I understand you're
quite a swimmer. And, you know, I'm thinking,
what's he going, what's he leading up to? I said,
no, I'm not, coach. I'm a terrible swimmer. I
hadn't swam since I've been here. He said, well, I
didn't come to ask you to be on the swimming team. I
come to ask you to be my diver. I said, what? Diver?
How did you know I dive? He said, I looked it up in the
Beaumont, Texas YMCA office, they told me you won
the state championship diving and everything. He
said, he said, my diver quit and I need a diver.
Won't you help me? Boy, and I was coming from Coach
Adamson, that's something. He said, sure coach.
So I was the diver for the A&M swimming team and then
I think the record will reflect that out of eight
colleges at the conference meet, came out fifth.
Pretty good. Now, did he give you any scholarship?
No, sir. It was all for free? All free, volunteer.
What year was that that you joined swimming? It was
41-42 year. So, your third year. My third year.
When you first got here, the YMCA was the social
center? It was a gathering point. Yeah. Describe
what all y'all did at the YMCA. Well they had, I
didn't go there very often because I was too busy
doing other things, but they had a pool table and
people playing pool and ping pong. And it was there
where the Y, I think it's still there, in that same
building. Only they didn't have very many, they
didn't have much room, but I think they've
accumulated more room today. But it was, I'm
trying to remember the director of the Y. Cashin.
Cashin. Mr. Cashin. He sure was. And it was just, a
small area to go to and get away from everything and
it was nice. Mr. Cashin, that's right. Did you ever
see his two little boys, Red and Jim? Let me tell you
about Red. When I was a varsity basketball player,
Red was about 12 years old. And he would, somehow we
got to be dear friends. And he would wait for me the
day of the game at the front. I said, you wait for me
at the gate when I get there and I'll take you into
the game. He said, yes sir. And so he'd wait, when
I'd come up he'd be there waiting. I said, come on in
Red, come on in. Let him in, he's with me. And so we'd
go to the locker room and he'd get my sweat clothes
and he'd get my tape and make sure my ankles were
taped right. What an experience and what a guy he is
today. But every game, Red was waiting for me at the
gate. Share some memories of that first
basketball season here for you. For me? I was a
sophomore. Oh, so freshmen, you all didn't play
games? We didn't play a scheduled game. I was a
sophomore. And
start practicing, practice, practice. For some
reason or another, Coach McQuillan let me be the
point guard. And the point guard was a senior named
Sammy Dwyer. He was a senior. I don't know if I was
hurting his feelings or not. I was kind of
concerned about that. But anyway, I played quite a
bit my sophomore year. And in my junior year, I
completely took over the point guard. And in my
senior year, Marty Corot had got called up in the
service. And Manning Smith was our coach. And
Manning came to me. I was captain of the team. He
said, Mike, I never played basketball. I never
coached basketball. I don't think about it. I need
help. I said, it's OK, coach. Here's our plays. And
I diagrammed them for him. And we went over the
roster and became acquainted. But it was a nice
year of basketball for me. What were some of the
favorite games that you have in your heart, in your
memory? Kentucky and A&M. We were on a trip during
the Christmas holiday. This was back in 42. We were
on the way to the Madison Square Garden. We were
going to play Oregon State in Madison Square
Garden. And we started off playing
LSU. Anyway we finally wind up playing Bradley
Tech and we got to Kentucky and we played eight in
Kentucky. Well at the half they were beating us
pretty bad. And so the team rallied, and I was
pushing, pushing, pushing, pushing. And it
scared Adolph Rupp, the coach. Scared him, man.
Going to get beat by that old college down in Texas.
And so anyway, they beat us not bad but they beat us
and after the game he went to shake manning smith's
hand and he said no coach i want to shake that little
bitty guy's hand he scared me i thought he was going
to tear us up and so coach rupp came over to shut my
hand i have not watched it since Oh yeah, that's a
memorable memory for me. And playing in Madison
Square Garden, who'd you all play? Oh, they
canceled it. So we played Oregon State and
Springfield, Illinois. Now did you make that trip
on the train or on bus? On the train. On the train. We
stayed on the Pullman. And about how many teams? It
was ten of us. Ten? Yes, sir. And we all stayed on. We
played Kentucky, LSU, Bradley Tech, Purdue.
Piggy Lamberth was the co-chair. And then we swung
around and played Oregon State and Springfield,
Illinois. Then we swung around and played George
Washington University. And then we'd come on
home. I was going to tell you a story about Oh, we
were playing SMU one day, one night, my senior
year. And we were having a tough time with them. You
know, we didn't have an outstanding club, but we
had a good fighting bunch. And at the half, they
were ahead of us about six points. And we rallied
and played and played hard. And in fact, I made a
couple of buckets. If you made more than six
points, you were quite a scorer, you know. But I
wasn't a scorer, I was a ball handler. And I played
so hard, and we won the game, that I just sat down in
the middle of the floor. I was just so tired. And
here comes a coed out of the grandstand. and gives
me a big hug and a kiss. Next morning, Dallas Times
Herald, Darling of the Courts. And they had a
picture of it. And the caption was, Darling of the
Courts beat SMU. And that, you know, it was Bob
Smith out of Houston's niece. Yeah. Did you get
teased by your teammates? Oh yeah, they always
called me Darling. Hey Darling, come on Darling.
But it was all in fun.
But we had a nice group. Marty Corot was called up
and went to Corpus Christi on active duty and we
played his team there at the Naval Station. And
you were doing basketball strictly for fun,
right? Did you ever get a full scholarship? Never
did. I don't know why. So you continued to wait
tables. Wait tables and do odd jobs around. And I
don't know why I didn't make a demand since I was
captain of the team to get a full scholarship. If
y'all had a full muscle or a health problem, who
took care of that while you were an athlete? We had a
trainer named Little Demmon. I called him Bubba
Little. He used to coach at Beaumont High School
when I was there. And he was the trainer. If we had a
big problem, we had to go to the hospital here. Dr.
Marsh was the doctor. Very fine person. Describe
your memory of Dr. Marsh. Oh, that rascal. He was,
you know, he was much older than we were. But he got
along great with the students. I got along good
with him. And I never had any problems with him at
all i mean any any medical problems let me say did
y'all call it the quack shack no we didn't call it
later that would be the nickname yeah i know that
that's what they call the clinic here or something
who was the when you got here who was the president a
m president walton teal walton describe him Well
he was, we didn't get, we weren't very much in touch
with him. And I don't want to, he lived in the
President's house which was behind dorm ten in the
corps area. And he was pretty rough on the corps and
stuff like that. And one of my roommates drowned
him out through the window of his home. And of
course, they caught him, suspended him, and told
him they can never come back to A&M. But I think a
year later, they let him be in there. Did you know
the Gilchrists? Gib Gilchrist was president, I
think, after Mr. Walton. And one year, I think, my
senior year. All right. And then Henry was growing
up on the campus. They got here, I think, in 37 or 38.
and Henry was about ten, he told me, when he got
here. Oh, really? So he would have been probably
junior high, senior high when you got here. Let's
see. Henry. Henry Gilchrist. Gilchrist, I see.
The son. He's a lawyer in Dallas now. Yeah. Guyon
Hall. Guyon Hall was a musical hall, theater hall.
Yeah. Didn't have money. to go often, but when I did
it was a treat. Oh yeah, Guy and Hall. Now I've heard
that Aggies made noise during the movie
sometimes, would cheer and laugh. If that comes
later? That comes later. During those first,
particularly that first year or two, how did you
communicate with your parents? Did you all write
letters? Did you call on the phone? Called
letters. Never called on the phone. I don't recall
calling on the phone. How often would you write?
Write maybe at least once a week. And one weekend I
came home, and I'd been home several times, and my
mother says, come, Andrew doesn't come home.
That's my brother. He was a freshman behind me. I
said, well, Mama, he's studying. And I said, she
said, well, I wanted him to come home. I hadn't seen
him. I said, OK, Mama, we'll get him here. About the
second month, we were in school. And I had been home
a couple of times. The reason Andrew didn't get
home, he was on a bull ring. Every weekend, he was
here at A&M. So what happened? I said, Andrew,
let's do this. I'm going to walk the bull ring for
you. weekend and you go home and see mama." So he
said, okay. So I get down to the bullring, which is
held behind the petroleum building, geology
building. They call it Coconose AP. I had my
campaign hat on and I looked down, here sir. And
they said, okay, and we start marching. The first
hour went well. Then the second hour, here comes
Captain Elwood, our professor of military
science, Red Elwood. And he was watching us all,
and he sent a sergeant over at the break, 10-minute
break, and he said, go get Kokonos. I want to talk to
him. So I get up in front of him, and I salute him and
everything. And he says, what in the H-E-L-L-U
doing on this bullring? He says, you don't have a
demerit at all. I know. I've checked your record. I
said, sir, my brother Andrew is walking in the pool
and I'm walking in his place. Yeah, I know. So Mama
hadn't seen him since he came in there in September
and this was about November. And I said, Andrew,
you go home and see Mama and I'll walk the bullring
for you. He looked at me and he looked at me. Get back
in line. That's all he said. But he turned out to be
one of my finest friends and my mentor here at A&M.
He came to every basketball game. He hollered for
me at every play and every time I got the ball. And he
taught me how to fire field artillery weapons as a
forward observer that I used in combat. And I
really have a very dear spot in my heart for Well,
Colonel Elwood, when he left here. Because he and I
were very good friends. All right. And you
mentioned combat. Let's go back. You got here as a
freshman almost exactly when the war began in
Europe in the fall of 1939. That's right. Did you
and your buddies, did you all start talking much
about the war in Europe? Never said anything about
it. We didn't even consider it. When I came to A&M, I
couldn't do right face from left face. I didn't
know what military was really. But I learned
pretty quick. What hurt us more, and I say us
because it involves the basketball team, In
December of 41, we were practicing basketball and
December 7, Coach Corot, I think it was a Sunday,
called us all in the middle of the floor of D-Ware
Gym. He said, sit down fellas, I got something to
tell you. He said, Pearl Harbor was attacked by the
Japanese and we're at war. And would you believe
it? It wasn't a dry eye in the bunch. They all were so
mad and so hit hard by that that Coach Corot
canceled the basketball practice and said come
back Monday and we'll practice and sent us home.
What did you and, when you and your buddies as you
went into the shower and went back to your room,
what were you all saying to each other? Not much. We
were really solemn. We didn't know what to say.
Didn't know what to do, really. But we knew if we
stayed at A&M, we'd be trained to go wherever they
wanted us to go. And so we didn't say much. There
wasn't any big discussion. They were all mad at the
Japs for what they did. As a history teacher, I can
tell you that one of the now amusing things is to
have a student ask, well, what about the opponents
of the war? We always tell them, there were none.
There were none. And did some of your
acquaintances leave quickly? Yeah some of them
did leave. They joined up, they went to Canada and
joined the Air Force. But most of them stayed here.
And then we thought we were going to get our
commission and be commissioned as second
lieutenant, like they had done the other classes.
But they didn't do that to our class. We went to
school 12 months out of the year, and we didn't go to
that summer training, six-week training. That's
where you get your commission and everything.
Now, had you gone to, after your freshman year,
let's back up. After your freshman year, what did
you do that summer? Did you go to summer camp after
your freshman year? No, sir. You went back to
Beaumont? Went back to Beaumont and went to work.
What did you do? Worked out the mobile oil
refinery. Good job. Yeah, it was a water bar. But
they wouldn't keep it. They wouldn't keep us. And
then next summer I worked for a pure oil company
working on the labor gang out at Port Natchez. And
academically, how were you doing here? Average. I
wasn't the brightest thing that came to A&M, but I
was average. And you changed your major from
pre-med? From engineering to pre-med. Oh, you
changed from engineering to pre-med. Yes, sir.
And did you really think you were going to go to
medical school? I really thought I would go to
medical school. I sure did. Who did you turn to for
academic advice? what to take and what
instructors. Who did you... You see, my advisor at
the time
I didn't seek his advice. He didn't ask me either.
He didn't call me in. I was trying to think of the
prof's name in the biology department, a little
short fellow. Anyway I visited with him and he told
me what courses to take like genetics and
histology and comparative anatomy. But it was
pretty well spelled out. Take all the chemistry
there was. I took every chemistry course they had.
And I could have got a degree in chemistry if I'd
have taken calculus or thermodynamics or
something like that, but I wasn't very good at
math, and so I avoided it. But I really didn't seek
anybody. I just followed the course at A&M and sat
down for pre-med. Now, did you turn to an older
brother for advice sometimes? Yeah, my older
brother was the one that talked me into taking
engineering, which I didn't want to do it, so I
didn't talk to him anymore.
You mentioned baptism a while ago, baptism in the
Greek Orthodox Church. Yes, sir. Is that the
church you, did you attend Greek Orthodox back in
Beaumont? Back in Beaumont, yes. All right, now
when you came up here, what did you do on Sundays? I
went to the Episcopalian Church. down on behind
Duncan Hall. Right over here. Right over here,
yes, sir. And I was a lay reader. Did the typical
Aggie go to church in those days? Yes, they did.
Two or three of us used to march across the field
behind Duncan Hall and go to church together. In
fact, Reverend Houser was the priest, the pastor,
and he's a handball player. So I'm a handball
player. So we got acquainted real quick. good and
bonded and so I went for four years. Where did you
play handball? Behind DeWare Gym. Outdoors? No
sir. Oh in a little? In a little shack behind it and
the roof was The ceiling was made of chicken wire,
so you couldn't get a ceiling shot. You familiar
with handball? I play handball today. Hey, that's
why you're in good shape. Yes, sir. I hope so.
Describe the religious activities on the campus.
Was there a religious emphasis week then in the
spring? They had them, but they weren't
publicized very much. We didn't have the chapel
like they have here now. My other roommate, Bobby
Woodham, was a Baptist, and he went to the Baptist
church, and I went with him a couple of times just to
accommodate him. And the same Catholic church
outside of Bryan, what is it, St. Joseph? St.
Joseph. They were the only Catholic church I can
remember. Well, normally the cadets kept to
themselves about their religion. Now, the fact
that you were of Greek ancestry, did that ever, did
anybody ever tease you about that? No, sir. Never
did. And describe the variety of acquaintances
you had here as to where they came from and what
their family did. Well, one of my Battery Mates was
Cantu, Peter Cantu. He was from San Antonio and his
family
had a grocery store if I'm not mistaken.
Normally,
generally, Cadet Corps was a great mixture of
different religion, different nationality, and
no one ever questioned. No one. Like, did you know
some Jewish boys? Oh, yeah. Bob Epstein, and I knew
some Italian boys named Cantina from Galveston,
Novelli, and some Jewish. But we were all friends.
No one ever questioned. Were any of those Japanese
American boys from Orange County here when you
were here? Oh, Kishi. No, they were before my time.
They were rice farmers down in Viter, Texas,
Orange County. That's correct. Got a good memory,
Dr. Monroe. Let's see.
When the war started, did everything become more
serious on campus? I can't say that it was a change
of pace or anything like that because to me A&M was
always a serious situation you know. There wasn't
no hell raising much and silver taps just sobered
you up so quickly and made you realize that life is
so precious you know.
Yeah, the activity has begun to pick up in the
military and fellows, classmates were leaving
before they finished the semester. Did all of
y'all take Silver Tap seriously? Yes, sir. That
was the most serious thing that was on this campus.
Today, I can tell you